Lifeguards
 1. There are 2 types of life guards. Shore guards require no surf experience. Reef guards require surf experience.
 2. Lifeguards will be in rotational positions and cannot leave their post if someone is not there to relieve them
 3. Shore guard rotation locations will be 3 in number: First Aid Room, Left Shore, and Right Shore and be conducted in this order initiating from the first aid room.
 4. Shore guards will do the safety briefing before the start of each wave session. The first aid guard will go out to the safety briefing location at the 45 minute marker, conduct the safety briefing at the 50 minute marker, and then relieve the left shore guard.
 5. Reef Guard rotations will be 4 in number: Rental Room, Control Tower, Left Reef, Right Reef. The rotation will be initiated from the Rental room to the Control tower, to the Left Reef, to the Right Reef.
 6. Wave sessions begin on the hour every during operating hours.
 7. Lifeguards must rotate. Lifeguards should rotate on the 45minute marker of every hour.
 8. Please consider having 1 x “Floating” Lifeguard for the Shore Guards and 1x “Floating” Lifeguard for the Reef Guards. 2 total Floating lifeguards, who will not be in the rotation, but are there to help give breaks and give a smooth and safe operation.
 9. Consider 1 head life guard manager as an optional position
10. Consider lifeguard supervisors within the rotation as good lifeguards will need to be promoted. Outline their additional duties. They will be in the rotation or as a floater.
11. Incoming lifeguards for a shift changeover will arrive 30 minutes before the prior shift of lifeguards clocks out. The will rotate in on the 45minute marker. The guards completing their shift will clock out on the hour. This means the incoming guards arrive and have 15 minutes before rotating in to the operation on the 30minute marker of the hour
12. Lifeguard shifts should be 4.5 hours as a base, but can stretch to longer when the operating hours increase.
13. Increase the shift length of the mid-shift first before doing so for the opening and ending shift in a day.

